All right, hello, is everybody ready?
No, yes?
>> Yes.
>> I want more, come on,
a little bit more, a little bit more.
>> Yes.
There we go, all right, we're excited,
there we go.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [LAUGH]
>> Everyone,
we're gonna do a Linus chad now.
I actually heard a really great
quote before all this which is,
Git was only invented so that the rest
of us could be nearly as smart as Linus.
Because he is that good,
he can hold all of Linux in his head
with revisions while the rest
of us are just mere mortals, so.
But for this grand course,
I did want to be a bit more professional.
So we're gonna undone the black hoodie and
put on regular normal clothes.
All right, so
I just think that's fantastic.
So all right, so who am I?
For those that don't know,
I stream on Twitch, I make YouTube videos.
I do handcrafted artisanal memes
every now and then on Twitter.
I don't have a link there.
I made this logo with ChatGPT,
it got so close.
It's just so close, yet
it's just so far away.
Also, those ones as well are from ChatGPT,
so pretty fantastic.
So the goal here is to teach you Git well,
it's not gonna go over
every single command.
I don't know if you've ever played
around with the man docs, but
there's about 147 different
commands you can put into Git.
We'll go over 13 of them.
We're gonna get pretty far into it, but
the last 1% of knowing Git
is extremely difficult.
You don't ever have to know it, I've
literally not touched most things in Git.
There's just enough to make you good,
and that's where we want to be,
is we want to be pretty dang good and
understand why they exist.
All right, so before we git,
by the way, you should man.
If you don't know what man is, man is the
manual pages for any kind of Unix system.
So if you just jump in your terminal and
type man man,
you will see a bunch of
manual pages appear.
It's really important to
be kind of good at these.
You don't even have to be great at them,
just kind of good, because everything
you need to know about Git is for
free and on your system at all times.
You don't even need the Internet.
If you're on an airplane,
you can just man git whatever command and
you'll read the manual page for it.
So it's always fantastic to have
the manual in the back pocket and
just kinda know how it works.
So if everyone can open up the manual for
a quick second and check it out.
By the way, if you ever want to, you can
always do a man git-, press some tabs.
And if you're on Zish,
you'll see that it has, like I said,
literally 147 possibilities there,
quite fantastic.
So if you have man open, and
you've never used man before,
j goes down a line, k goes up a line.
d goes down a half page,
u goes up a half page, / or
forward / any word will search for
something.
n goes to the next search
term after you press Enter,
capital N goes to the previous
search term after you press Enter.
So now that you see this,
you probably think, okay,
maybe Vim shortcuts aren't
like all that crazy.
Maybe this has some precedent,
you're probably right.
No one knows where F came from, but
the rest of it probably makes sense.
All right, so quick exercise,
in man pages, you see bold terms.
I want someone to find what is a bold
term, what is it's definition.
Use the man pages, use man man to find
out why a man page has bold terms.
So you can search, you can peruse
>> / bold,
first result is bold text,
type exactly as shown.
>> Correct, all right, so
there's a bunch of different ways you got
to read commands out of the man page.
You'll see kind of specified with italics,
with brackets,
with dot, dot, dot, ellipses,
all that kinda stuff.
And so when you look at a man page,
everything has a meaning.
And so this is just kind of your intro,
if you forget how a man page works,
use man man.
You can go over it, you can look at it.
It's always in your back pocket,
fantastic to have.
And so there you go, bold text literally
means to type exactly as it's shown.
So if you look at the man page, you'll see
something like man -k, and that shows up
in all bold, and then you'll see the rest
of it kind of telling you how to use it.
So that's how you use a man page,
fantastic.